README.md, before:

# Gatsby Source Cloudinary

Pull data from your Cloudinary account into the Gatsby data layer with `gatsby-source-cloudinary`. Creates a `CloudinaryMedia` node for each media file found.

- [`gatsby-plugin-image`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image/) compatible when used with [`gatsby-transformer-cloudinary`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/).
- To upload images already in the Gatsby data layer (such as local files) to Cloudinary use [`gatsby-transformer-cloudinary`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/).

&nbsp;

## 📖 Table of Contents

- [🚀 Getting Started](#🚀-getting-started)
  - [Install Package](#install-package)
  - [Configure Plugin](#configure-plugin)
  - [Example usage](#example-usage)
- [🖼️ Use with Gatsby Image](#🖼️-use-with-gatsby-image)
  - [Install Packages](#install-packages)
  - [Configure Plugins](#configure-plugins)
  - [Example usage](#example-usage-1)
- [🔌 Pugin Options](#🔌-plugin-options)
- [⚠️ Gotchas](#⚠️-gotchas)
- [📚 Other Resources](#📚-other-resources)
- [🏴‍☠️ Contribute](#🏴‍☠️-contribute)

&nbsp;

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Install Package

```bash
npm install gatsby-source-cloudinary
```

or

```bash
yarn add gatsby-source-cloudinary
```

### Configure Plugin

Add `gatsby-source-cloudinary` to the plugin array in your `gatsby-config.js` file.

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-cloudinary`,
      options: {
        cloudName: process.env.CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
        apiKey: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
        apiSecret: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET,
        // resourceType: `image`,
        // type: `twitter`,
        // maxResults: 22,
        // tags: true,
        // context: true,
        // prefix: `demo/animals`
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

`process.env` ⁉️ Read about [env variables in the Gatsby docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/local-development/environment-variables/).

### Example usage

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { graphql } from 'gatsby';

export default function BasicPage({ data }) {
  return (
    <main>
      {data.allCloudinaryMedia.nodes.map((media, index) => (
        <img key={index} width="200px" src={media.secure_url} />
      ))}
    </main>
  );
}

export const query = graphql`
  query {
    allCloudinaryMedia {
      nodes {
        secure_url
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

&nbsp;

## 🖼️ Use with Gatsby Plugin Image

To use [`gatsby-plugin-image`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image/) with your `CloudinaryMedia` nodes, you need the [`gatsby-transformer-cloudinary`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/) to add the `gatsbyImageData` resolver needed.

### Install Packages

```bash
npm install --save gatsby-transformer-cloudinary gatsby-plugin-image
```

or

```bash
yarn add --save gatsby-transformer-cloudinary gatsby-plugin-image
```

### Configure Plugins

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-cloudinary`,
      options: {
        cloudName: process.env.CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
        apiKey: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
        apiSecret: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET,
        // resourceType: `image`,
        // type: `twitter`,
        // maxResults: 22,
        // tags: true,
        // context: true,
        // prefix: `demo/animals`
      },
    },
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-transformer-cloudinary`,
      options: {
        // Add the `gatsbyImageData` resolver to `CloudinaryMedia`
        transformTypes: [`CloudinaryMedia`],
      },
    },
    `gatsby-plugin-image`,
  ],
};
```

Check the [`gatsby-plugin-image` docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image/) and [`gatsby-transformer-cloudinary` docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/) to learn more.

### Example usage

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { graphql } from 'gatsby';
import { GatsbyImage, getImage } from 'gatsby-plugin-image';

export default function GasbyImagePage({ data }) {
  return (
    <main>
      {data.allCloudinaryMedia.nodes.map((media, index) => {
        const image = getImage(media);
        return <GatsbyImage key={index} image={image} />;
      })}
    </main>
  );
}

export const query = graphql`
  query {
    allCloudinaryMedia {
      nodes {
        gatsbyImageData(width: 300, placeholder: BLURRED)
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

&nbsp;

## 🔌 Plugin Options

### `cloudName` (required)

You'll find your Cloudinary account's `cloudName` in your [Cloudinary console](https://cloudinary.com/console/).

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Note:** Store and retrieve your `cloudName` as [an environment variable](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/local-development/environment-variables/).

### `apiKey` (required)

The API Key of your Cloudinary account. You'll find it in your [Cloudinary console](https://cloudinary.com/console/).

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Note:** Store and retrieve your `apiKey` as [an environment variable](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/local-development/environment-variables/).

### `apiSecret` (required)

The API Secret of your Cloudinary account. You'll find it in your [Cloudinary console](https://cloudinary.com/console/).

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Note:** Store and retrieve your `apiSecret` as [an environment variable](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/local-development/environment-variables/).

### `resourceType`

The _resource_ types to include when pulling data from Cloudinary.

**Type:** String\
**Default:** `image`\
**Valid:** `image`, `raw` and `video`\
**Note:** Use the video `resourceType` for all video and audio files, such as `.mp3` and `.mp4`.

### `type`

The _storage_ types to include when pulling data from your Cloudinary account.

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Valid:** `upload`, `private`, `authenticated`, `facebook`, `twitter`, `gplus`, `instagram_name`, `gravatar`, `youtube`, `hulu`, `vimeo`, `animoto`, `worldstarhiphop` and `dailymotion`\
**Note:** When not given, all types are sourced.

### `maxResults`

Max number of resources to return.

**Type:** Integer\
**Default:** `10`

### `tags`

When `true`, includes the list of tag names assigned to each resource.

**Type:** Boolean\
**Default:** `false`

### `prefix`

Find all resources with a public ID that starts with the given `prefix` sorted by public ID in the response.

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Note:** Can be used to source only media files from a specific folder. However, you will need to specify both `type` and `resourceType` in the config options.

### `context`

When `true`, includes the context data assigned to each resource. Helpful in retrieving alt text or custom metadata configured for the media file in Cloudinary.

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a

&nbsp;

## ⚠️ Gotchas

- Gatsby pulls the data from Cloudinary when it builds; you need to trigger a rebuild whenever new media files are added to the Cloudinary account.
- `f_auto` and `q_auto` Cloudinary transformations are applied automatically to the `secure_url` value optimizing the delivered media quality and format.

&nbsp;

## 📚 Other Resources

- [Cloudinary image transformation reference](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/image_transformation_reference)

&nbsp;

## 🏴‍☠️ Contribute

Want to contribute to making the plugin even better? Feel free to send in issues and pull requests on feature requests, fixes, bugs, typos, performance lapses, or any other challenge faced using our plugin.

Commit message:

docs: improve docs (#55)
* Reworked contribution grammar + phrasing
* Add link to CONTRIBUTING.md from "Contribute"-section in readme

Part of #40

README.md, after:

# Gatsby Source Cloudinary

Pull data from your Cloudinary account into the Gatsby data layer with `gatsby-source-cloudinary`. Creates a `CloudinaryMedia` node for each media file found.

- [`gatsby-plugin-image`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image/) compatible when used with [`gatsby-transformer-cloudinary`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/).
- To upload images already in the Gatsby data layer (such as local files) to Cloudinary use [`gatsby-transformer-cloudinary`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/).

&nbsp;

## 📖 Table of Contents

- [🚀 Getting Started](#🚀-getting-started)
  - [Install Package](#install-package)
  - [Configure Plugin](#configure-plugin)
  - [Example usage](#example-usage)
- [🖼️ Use with Gatsby Image](#🖼️-use-with-gatsby-image)
  - [Install Packages](#install-packages)
  - [Configure Plugins](#configure-plugins)
  - [Example usage](#example-usage-1)
- [🔌 Pugin Options](#🔌-plugin-options)
- [⚠️ Gotchas](#⚠️-gotchas)
- [📚 Other Resources](#📚-other-resources)
- [🏴‍☠️ Contribute](#🏴‍☠️-contribute)

&nbsp;

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Install Package

```bash
npm install gatsby-source-cloudinary
```

or

```bash
yarn add gatsby-source-cloudinary
```

### Configure Plugin

Add `gatsby-source-cloudinary` to the plugin array in your `gatsby-config.js` file.

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-cloudinary`,
      options: {
        cloudName: process.env.CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
        apiKey: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
        apiSecret: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET,
        // resourceType: `image`,
        // type: `twitter`,
        // maxResults: 22,
        // tags: true,
        // context: true,
        // prefix: `demo/animals`
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

`process.env` ⁉️ Read about [env variables in the Gatsby docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/local-development/environment-variables/).

### Example usage

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { graphql } from 'gatsby';

export default function BasicPage({ data }) {
  return (
    <main>
      {data.allCloudinaryMedia.nodes.map((media, index) => (
        <img key={index} width="200px" src={media.secure_url} />
      ))}
    </main>
  );
}

export const query = graphql`
  query {
    allCloudinaryMedia {
      nodes {
        secure_url
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

&nbsp;

## 🖼️ Use with Gatsby Plugin Image

To use [`gatsby-plugin-image`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image/) with your `CloudinaryMedia` nodes, you need the [`gatsby-transformer-cloudinary`](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/) to add the `gatsbyImageData` resolver needed.

### Install Packages

```bash
npm install --save gatsby-transformer-cloudinary gatsby-plugin-image
```

or

```bash
yarn add --save gatsby-transformer-cloudinary gatsby-plugin-image
```

### Configure Plugins

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-cloudinary`,
      options: {
        cloudName: process.env.CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
        apiKey: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
        apiSecret: process.env.CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET,
        // resourceType: `image`,
        // type: `twitter`,
        // maxResults: 22,
        // tags: true,
        // context: true,
        // prefix: `demo/animals`
      },
    },
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-transformer-cloudinary`,
      options: {
        // Add the `gatsbyImageData` resolver to `CloudinaryMedia`
        transformTypes: [`CloudinaryMedia`],
      },
    },
    `gatsby-plugin-image`,
  ],
};
```

Check the [`gatsby-plugin-image` docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image/) and [`gatsby-transformer-cloudinary` docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-transformer-cloudinary/) to learn more.

### Example usage

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { graphql } from 'gatsby';
import { GatsbyImage, getImage } from 'gatsby-plugin-image';

export default function GasbyImagePage({ data }) {
  return (
    <main>
      {data.allCloudinaryMedia.nodes.map((media, index) => {
        const image = getImage(media);
        return <GatsbyImage key={index} image={image} />;
      })}
    </main>
  );
}

export const query = graphql`
  query {
    allCloudinaryMedia {
      nodes {
        gatsbyImageData(width: 300, placeholder: BLURRED)
      }
    }
  }
`;
```

&nbsp;

## 🔌 Plugin Options

### `cloudName` (required)

You'll find your Cloudinary account's `cloudName` in your [Cloudinary console](https://cloudinary.com/console/).

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Note:** Store and retrieve your `cloudName` as [an environment variable](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/local-development/environment-variables/).

### `apiKey` (required)

The API Key of your Cloudinary account. You'll find it in your [Cloudinary console](https://cloudinary.com/console/).

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Note:** Store and retrieve your `apiKey` as [an environment variable](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/local-development/environment-variables/).

### `apiSecret` (required)

The API Secret of your Cloudinary account. You'll find it in your [Cloudinary console](https://cloudinary.com/console/).

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Note:** Store and retrieve your `apiSecret` as [an environment variable](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/local-development/environment-variables/).

### `resourceType`

The _resource_ types to include when pulling data from Cloudinary.

**Type:** String\
**Default:** `image`\
**Valid:** `image`, `raw` and `video`\
**Note:** Use the video `resourceType` for all video and audio files, such as `.mp3` and `.mp4`.

### `type`

The _storage_ types to include when pulling data from your Cloudinary account.

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Valid:** `upload`, `private`, `authenticated`, `facebook`, `twitter`, `gplus`, `instagram_name`, `gravatar`, `youtube`, `hulu`, `vimeo`, `animoto`, `worldstarhiphop` and `dailymotion`\
**Note:** When not given, all types are sourced.

### `maxResults`

Max number of resources to return.

**Type:** Integer\
**Default:** `10`

### `tags`

When `true`, includes the list of tag names assigned to each resource.

**Type:** Boolean\
**Default:** `false`

### `prefix`

Find all resources with a public ID that starts with the given `prefix` sorted by public ID in the response.

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a\
**Note:** Can be used to source only media files from a specific folder. However, you will need to specify both `type` and `resourceType` in the config options.

### `context`

When `true`, includes the context data assigned to each resource. Helpful in retrieving alt text or custom metadata configured for the media file in Cloudinary.

**Type:** String\
**Default:** n/a

&nbsp;

## ⚠️ Gotchas

- Gatsby pulls the data from Cloudinary when it builds; you need to trigger a rebuild whenever new media files are added to the Cloudinary account.
- `f_auto` and `q_auto` Cloudinary transformations are applied automatically to the `secure_url` value optimizing the delivered media quality and format.

&nbsp;

## 📚 Other Resources

- [Cloudinary image transformation reference](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/image_transformation_reference)

&nbsp;

## 🏴‍☠️ Contribute

You may improve the documentation, help fellow users, report bugs, suggest enhancements, contribute code and more.

Get started by reading the [contribution docs](https://github.com/cloudinary-devs/gatsby-source-cloudinary/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).
